[Music]
in the next 30 seconds
you'll blink eight times just enough to
keep your eyeballs properly hydrated
you'll take around eight breaths if
you're just sitting there at rest that
is
start working out and you'll feel that
rate double to 16 breaths in half a
minute
your heart will beat about 40 times and
all your blood will make half the trip
through your body
that same blood will get 72 million new
recruits
that's how many red blood cells your
body will produce
20 000 old skin cells gone in 30 seconds
no worries though they're making room
for bright new shiny ones
and that will be one of the 25 random
thoughts you'll have in half a minute
don't lose that train of thought the
average english speaker will say
75 words in this time an auctioneer
between 125
and 200 you'll read 100 words
if you're a college student you should
be able to go faster than that at least
150 words
hurry cram it all in meanwhile your
thoughts are forming much faster than
you can utter them or read
around 600 in this time frame 1.5
million chemical reactions will happen
in each of your body's 30 trillion cells
can you hear your inner power plant
working probably not
but it does work non-stop turning food
into energy
at 50 watts per 30 seconds express
delivery nutrients and
oxygen are on their way to your organs
to keep them working
your blood will travel four miles
transporting the goods
your brain is being bombarded with 330
million bits of data
coming in from your sensory organs your
eyes are sending 90 percent of that
followed by touch sound smell and taste
my ears are picking up wedding bells yes
58 people will say i do to each other in
the presence of family and friends
or not vegas anyone a good amount of
those newlyweds must have found each
other in a dating app
maybe tinder with its 3500 matches
every half a minute on the other side of
that coin
30 people will say it's over give me
half
in that time as well 129 babies will be
born and take their first breath
welcome to the world a new baby sounds
like a good reason to move into a new
home
72 people will do it not only new
parents
just to clarify don't forget to put your
change of address in
around 6 000 packages will be delivered
by the postal service in half a minute
cover your ears it's the roaring engines
of one of 29 commercial aircraft
that'll take off somewhere in the world
in this short time
someone on board is definitely updating
their facebook status
it'll be one of the 104 000 of its kind
not necessarily travel related seventy
three thousand pictures will be shared
by facebook users
all part of a photo collection over ten
thousand times the size
of the world's largest library that's a
good one
love that ah how cute they're my
contributions to the 14 million likes
people give each other every half minute
200 new users will join the facebook
community
some of them will start by sharing a
link just like 27
000 other users in the next 30 seconds
all the while 7 500 gifs will make
someone smile
or even lol in facebook manager and
1500 of the world's 3.5 billion
smartphone users
will suddenly realize their current
phone isn't good enough anymore
so they'll get a replacement helping
apple to make over 35 000
in the time it takes to tie your shoes
samsung
will rake in a bit more than 27 000.
got your new phone now call all your
friends to share the news
it'll be one of 24 million phone calls
made around the world
time to download some apps hundred
seventy thousand of those are downloaded
from the app store and google play in
eight blinks of an eye check the mega
pixels on that thing too
three hundred sixty thousand photos will
get taken
a lot of them by phone someone will take
a video instead
and maybe upload it to youtube adding to
the 100 hours of new content put on the
site
every 30 seconds meanwhile things are
popping over on snapchat too
six hundred thousand pictures one
million shared snaps
and two million videos are viewed before
many of them are gone for good
computer getting sluggish you could get
a new one
it'll be one of the 350 purchased
globally in half a minute
don't forget a usb drive to transfer
your data
just pick any of the 2 000 flash drives
being bought around the globe
nice choice what's my ip address will be
one of the 90 million google searches
taking place in the top three most asked
questions
what is love how to draw and where am i
are some other common inquiries people
turn to google for
to provide some answers to the masses
and maybe some cat memes
282 new websites will be created
or perhaps you can make a wikipedia
article on it
it'll be one of the three new articles
created there every half minute
adding to the six million in english
already on the site
you could also ask about it in an email
and click send
just like nearly 102 million others in
different corners of the world
or you can send your friend a whatsapp
message and it'll land somewhere among
million of those that come out every 30
seconds
a good old text message will suffice the
stats are giving me 8 million reasons to
believe that
what's that tune must be one of 7 500
songs getting downloaded from itunes
right now
someone is definitely watching a new
episode of their favorite show at the
moment
it adds up to 35 000 hours watched on
netflix in this time
hold up did those shoes just go on sale
oh i have to get them
together with other good deals we spend
000 on while shopping online many will
do their shopping on amazon
and jeff bezos the company's ceo and
president
will earn seventy five thousand dollars
in the next thirty seconds
bill gates in his turn will make three
thousand eight hundred dollars
ah poor bill as for us average joes
will earn about 20 cents oh boy
well at least i can afford a burger hope
it's the best out of the 2250 mcdonald's
famous treats sold in 30 seconds
can't be munching on burgers all the
time if i want to run like usain bolt
the fastest man in the world can cover a
thousand feet in 30 seconds
it's still nothing compared to light the
fastest known thing in our universe
traveling 5.5 million miles in a half a
minute if you could move around the
earth at that speed
you'd circle it 225 times
the international space station would
take silver in that race
it covers 142 miles
the moon completes a 20-mile journey in
that time
hey our natural satellite is going a lot
faster than the speed of sound
it only travels 6 miles in 30 seconds
though
sound waves get 4 times faster when
moving through water instead of
air as for the fastest member of the
animal kingdom
a cheetah will spread a half a mile in a
half a minute
a brown hair covers 2000 feet twice as
far as usain bolt
the tortoise though will manage just 26
feet
half the length of a semi hey slow and
steady wins the race right
a snail would barely cover the length of
a pencil
about 15 inches i guess if it got itself
one of the 700 uber rides people
order with her gadget it'd reach its
final destination much faster
ride sharing snails sounds like a good
topic for a book
maybe one out of the three manuscripts
published globally at this time
could be named that that or a newborn
star
144 000 of them make the night sky
a brighter place every 30 seconds
when older stars run out of their
natural fuel their life ends in a
massive
boom it'll happen to 900 of them
the universe will expand by 275 miles
every 30 seconds it grows by the length
of the grand canyon
and hasn't stopped in 13.8 billion years
just like lightning that never stops
striking somewhere in the world
300 bolts hit the ground every half
minute
wow that was bright there are also two
earthquakes trembling the earth
somewhere
let's hope they're harmless and that
bright flash was a meteor on its way to
earth
seven of them enter the atmosphere every
30 seconds
it's okay most of them burn up and reach
the planet as
dust uh most of them